[docs] Display FCM V1 instructions (#27516)
expo/expo: docs/pages/push-notifications/fcm-credentials.mdx

    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="3">
  Click **Generate New Private Key**, then confirm by clicking **Generate Key**. Securely store the JSON file containing the private key.

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Generate a new private key in the Firebase Console"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/03-generate-key.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="4">
  Upload the JSON file to EAS and configure it for sending Android notifications. This can be done using EAS CLI or in [Expo dashboard](https://expo.dev).

  <Tabs tabs={["EAS CLI", "expo.dev"]}>
    <Tab>
      - Run `eas credentials`
      - select `Android`
      - select `production`
      - select `Google Service Accounts`
      - and select `FCM V1`
    </Tab>
    <Tab>
      - Under **Project settings**, click [Credentials](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) in the navigation menu
      - For **Android**, click **Add Application Identifier** or select an existing **Application identifier**
      - Under **Service Credentials**, find **FCM V1 service account key**

>       <ImageSpotlight
>         alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
>         src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
>         style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
>       />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

      <ImageSpotlight
        alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
      />
```

This will fix the CI failure. It was caused by my suggestion here earlier.

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Assign roles"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/02-add-role-1.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Select the Firebase Messaging API Admin role"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/02-add-role-2.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Save the role assignment"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/02-add-role-3.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="3">
  You have to specify to EAS which JSON credential file to use for sending FCM V1 notifications, using EAS CLI or in [Expo dashboard](https://expo.dev). You can upload a new JSON file or select a previously uploaded file.

  <Tabs tabs={["EAS CLI", "expo.dev"]}>
    <Tab>
      - Run `eas credentials`
      - Select `Android` > `production` > `Google Service Account`
      - Select `Manage your Google Service Account Key for Push Notifications (FCM V1)`
    </Tab>
    <Tab>

>       - - Under **Project settings**, click [Credentials](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) in the navigation menu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Under **Project settings**, click [Credentials](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) in the navigation menu
```

>       - For **Android**, click **Add Application Identifier** or select an existing **Application identifier**
>          - Under **Service Credentials**, find **FCM V1 service account key**
>        <ImageSpotlight
> 	        alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
> 	        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
> 	        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
>       />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - For **Android**, click **Add Application Identifier** or select an existing **Application identifier**
      - Under **Service Credentials**, find **FCM V1 service account key**

      <ImageSpotlight
        alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
      />
```

This will fix the CI failure. It was caused by my suggestion here earlier.

---

> title: 'Add Google Service Account Keys using FCM V1'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Add Google Service Account Keys using FCM V1
```

Using quotes in the title is not required.

sidebar_title: Add Android FCM V1 credentials

> description: Learn how to create a Google Service Account Key for sending Android Notifications using FCM V1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to create or use a Google Service Account Key for sending Android Notifications using FCM V1.
```

Since this page also lists steps to use an existing Google Service Account Key, we should update the description to reflect that.

Also, missing period at the end of the description.

---

import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';
import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';
import { Tab, Tabs } from '~/ui/components/Tabs';

## Create a new Google Service Account Key

Here are the steps to configure a new Google Service Account Key in EAS for sending Android Notifications using FCM V1.

<Step label="1">
  Create a new Firebase project for your app in the [Firebase Console](https://console.firebase.google.com). If you already have a Firebase project for your app, continue to the next step.

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Create a project in the Firebase Console"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/01-new-firebase-project.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="2">

>   In the Firebase console, open Settings > [Service Accounts](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/settings/serviceaccounts/adminsdk) for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In the Firebase console, open **Project settings** > [**Service accounts**](https://console.firebase.google.com/project/_/settings/serviceaccounts/adminsdk) for your project.
```

- Let's highlight the settings name by making them bold (this is a convention we follow)
- Let's also use the same settings names as Firebase does (based on the screenshot)

  <ImageSpotlight

>     alt="Firebase Console > Settings > Service Accounts"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    alt="Service accounts settings tab in Firebase console"
```

    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/02-manage-service-accounts.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="3">
  Click **Generate New Private Key**, then confirm by clicking **Generate Key**. Securely store the JSON file containing the private key.

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Generate a new private key in the Firebase Console"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/03-generate-key.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="4">

>   Upload the JSON file to EAS and configure it for sending Android notifications. This can be done in EAS CLI or via [expo.dev](https://expo.dev).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Upload the JSON file to EAS and configure it for sending Android notifications. This can be done using EAS CLI or in [Expo dashboard](https://expo.dev).
```

We usually call the main interface of expo.dev, Expo dashboard. For consistency, let's use that here too.

  <Tabs tabs={["EAS CLI", "expo.dev"]}>
    <Tab>

>       - Run `eas credentials`
>       - select `Android`
>       - select `production`
>       - select `Google Service Accounts`
>       - and select `FCM V1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Run `eas credentials`
      - Select `Android` > `production` > `Google Service Account`
      - Select `Manage your Google Service Account Key for Push Notifications (FCM V1)`
```

 - In CLI we call it "Google Service Account" instead of "Google Service Accounts". Let's use the same convention here. Similar to the last step.
 - Since we mention selecting `production` build profile here, what happens if I want to test the app first in development? Should I select the development profile? Should I keep separate Service Account keys for separate profiles in my project? I think addressing that in this guide or in the push notifications setup guide will be great to eliminate this confusion.

Author: @christopherwalter Do you have an answer to the second question here?

Reviewer 2: > Since we mention selecting production build profile here, what happens if I want to test the app first in development?

Yeah good question, this is something I punted on and never circled back. I'm not sure if you can have different credentials for different build profiles (based on the entity structure on the backend, I'd assume build profile doesn't come into play). @quinlanj might be able to clarify this.

> In CLI we call it "Google Service Account" instead of "Google Service Accounts". Let's use the same convention here. Similar to the last step.

FWIW I think we should change all of these to "Google Service Account Keys" (the pluralization is important, as well as clarifying that these are Service Account *Keys* and not simply Service Accounts). With that said, I'm fine with fixing it here for consistency with the CLI.

Reviewer 3: So it doesn't matter if you select Production, Development, etc. The GSAK will get stored the exact same way

Author: Okay so it seems like we can leave the doc here the way it is for now, and we should make another task to update places to use "keys" instead of "key".

Reviewer 3: I've created an issue to fix this in the future https://linear.app/expo/issue/ENG-11650/eas-credentials-build-profile

    </Tab>
    <Tab>

>       - Navigate to [credentials page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) for your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Under **Project settings**, click [Credentials](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) in the navigation menu
```

Let's describe the path to reach credentials under Project settings here.

>       - click on the Android application identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - For **Android**, click **Add Application Identifier** or select an existing **Application identifier**
```

- Usually, if I've created Android build before, in my project settings, there will be already an application identifier. Instead of creating a new one, I can select that since it is also mentioned in my project's app.json

>       - find the section entitled "FCM V1 service account key"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Under **Service Credentials**, find **FCM V1 service account key**
      <ImageSpotlight
        alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
      />
```

I also think we should have screenshots of the steps next to them.

>       - click **Add a service account key** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Click **Add a service account key** 
```

>       - upload your JSON credential and click **Save**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Under **Upload new key**, upload your JSON credential and click **Save**
```

>       <ImageSpotlight
>         alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
>         src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
>         style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
>       />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

      <ImageSpotlight
        alt="Select service account key file to upload"
        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-2.png"
        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
      />
      <ImageSpotlight
        alt="Save the service account key file to the project"
        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-3.png"
        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
      />
    </Tab>
  </Tabs>
</Step>

<Step label="5">
  You're all set! You can now send notifications to Android devices via Expo Push Notifications using the FCM V1 protocol.

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Service account key successfully uploaded"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/05-upload-credential-complete.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

## Use an existing Google Service Account Key

<Step label="1">

>   Open the [IAM Admin page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam?authuser=0) in Google Cloud Console. In the Permissions tab, locate the Principal you intend to modify and click the pencil icon for **Edit Principal**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Open the [IAM Admin page](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam?authuser=0) in Google Cloud Console. In the Permissions tab, locate the **Principal** you intend to modify and click the pencil icon for **Edit Principal**.
```

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Edit Principal in IAM Admin page in Google Cloud Console"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/01-iam-admin-page.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="2">

>   Click **Add Role** and select the `Firebase Messaging API Admin` role from the dropdown. Click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Click **Add Role** and select the **Firebase Messaging API Admin** role from the dropdown. Click **Save**.
```

Let's avoid using inline syntax highlight for setting items.

  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Assign roles"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/02-add-role-1.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Select the Firebase Messaging API Admin role"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/02-add-role-2.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
  <ImageSpotlight
    alt="Save the role assignment"
    src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/02-add-role-3.png"
    style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
  />
</Step>

<Step label="3">

>   Tell EAS which JSON credential file to use for sending FCM V1 notifications, either via EAS CLI or [expo.dev](https://expo.dev). You can upload a new JSON file or select a previously uploaded file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You have to specify to EAS which JSON credential file to use for sending FCM V1 notifications, using EAS CLI or in [Expo dashboard](https://expo.dev). You can upload a new JSON file or select a previously uploaded file.
```

Similar changes from the previous step.

  <Tabs tabs={["EAS CLI", "expo.dev"]}>
    <Tab>

>       - Run `eas credentials`
>       - select `Android`
>       - select `production`
>       - select `Google Service Accounts`
>       - and select `FCM V1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Run `eas credentials`
      - Select `Android` > `production` > `Google Service Account`
      - Select `Manage your Google Service Account Key for Push Notifications (FCM V1)`
```

Similar suggestions from the previous step

    </Tab>
    <Tab>

>       - Navigate to [credentials page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) for your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - - Under **Project settings**, click [Credentials](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[project]/credentials) in the navigation menu
```

Since we do not use period for any of the steps mentioned in list items, let's also remove it from here. Similar changes as from previous section.

>       - Click on the Android application identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - For **Android**, click **Add Application Identifier** or select an existing **Application identifier**
```

>       - Find the section entitled "FCM V1 service account key"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - Under **Service Credentials**, find **FCM V1 service account key**
       <ImageSpotlight
	        alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
	        src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/new-service-account/04-upload-credential-1.png"
	        style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
      />
```

      - Click **Add a service account key**
      - Upload your JSON credential and click **Save**

>       <ImageSpotlight
>         alt="Project credentials page on expo.dev"
>         src="/static/images/creating-google-service-account/fcm-v1/existing-service-account/03-upload-credential-1.png"
>         style={{ maxWidth: 800 }}
>       />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
